The Explanation:
It lists possible causes such as DNS issues, network issues, the service not running, firewall problems, or incorrect host file entries.
so the script suggests commands and procedures for fixing each identified issue:
DNS misconfiguration - network issues - service issues - firewall problems - IP address.

To check DNS Resolution for the Domain:
1- If the DNS resolution fails for the domain internal.example.com, it could indicate that the DNS server is not resolving the domain correctly.
Using dig
Command: dig internal.example.com

2- If DNS resolution is working so response with the ANSWER SECTION showing the resolved IP address and If DNS fails, it will be a message like no answer at all.
Using nslookup:
Command: nslookup internal.example.com

3- This will show the resolved IP or an error message if DNS fails.
Using host:
Command: host internal.example.com

To Compare DNS Results from Different Servers:
4- If DNS resolution fails from the system’s configured DNS servers (from /etc/resolv.conf), compare the results using an external DNS server like Google’s 8.8.8.8.
so it will confirm if the issue is with the local DNS server or not.
Command: dig @8.8.8.8 internal.example.com

5- If Google’s DNS resolves the domain but the system’s DNS server doesn't so the issue is with the local DNS server or DNS configuration.

To check DNS Configuration in /etc/resolv.conf:
Ensure that the DNS servers listed in /etc/resolv.conf are reachable and properly configured.

6- If the file is empty or points to a non-working DNS server, we can check by using the following command:
Command: cat /etc/resolv.conf

7- If it is still invalid or unreachable DNS servers, that’s a clear indication that DNS is misconfigured and it might fail due to cached results so I will try flushing DNS cache and testing again.

8- If the local DNS server fails to resolve while an external DNS server (like 8.8.8.8) works, then the issue is with the local DNS server.

9- To check Network Connectivity:
DNS might fail due to network connectivity issues so if machine cann't reach the DNS server because of network misconfigurations, DNS resolution failures.
Command: ping -c 4 8.8.8.8

10- If the DNS server is reachable but DNS resolution still fails, the issue is within the DNS service itself.
Command: dig internal.example.com

11- If this returns a valid IP address, DNS resolution is working.
Compare DNS with External DNS (Google's 8.8.8.8) and Run the same dig command, but use Google’s DNS:
Command: dig @8.8.8.8 internal.example.com

12- If Google’s DNS resolves the domain but system’s DNS doesn’t, the issue lies with DNS server or its configuration.
To check the DNS servers listed:
Command: cat /etc/resolv.conf

Conclusion:
By running these steps, I will know if the issue is related to DNS configuration.
If DNS fails from the system but works with external servers like Google's DNS, the issue is due to DNS misconfiguration or failure in the local DNS infrastructure.

** What part of the script was hardest to implement and why?

Error Handling for Missing Arguments
Ensuring the script works properly even when the user misses an argument required thorough validation.
Missing the trigger specific error messages to guide the user and these checks need to be in the right places to avoid confusing results or failures.